720p.txt
Created Fri Mar 27 08:34:37 AKDT 2015
Copyright (C) 2015 by Raymond E. Marcil <marcilr@gmail.com>


No 720p for DVDs only for blu-ray

"More or less true.  But here is the dealio for dvd's (which are by definition
480p ... no more no less) . Constant Quality encoding which the HB preset use
generally dictate that the visual quality will be the same at RF 20 no matter
what."

forums.macrumors.com/showthread.php?t=1086363


format: MKV H.264
preset: High Profile
misc:   Loose Amamorphic setting
rf:     20 DVD, 22 blu-ray


Best possible Handbrake settings to rip DVDs? 720p?
===================================================
I have an Apple TV2.  I've been ripping DVDs with the "Apple TV 2" setting.
What is the best possible setting on Handbrake to get the best possible
quality (obviously don't want the files sizes to be HUGE) ? 

Also, can someone explain to me what 720p is? Is it possible to rip DVDs on to
my computer in 720p format from a DVD?

My concern is making sure that my movies are still watchable in good years in
terms of quality and in case I no longer use iTunes in the future.

harpster
macrumors regular
Join Date: Jan 2010

Quote:
  Originally Posted by ashy7  View Post
  For DVD's I use the Highprofile setting, change the RF to 19% and get a very
  good quality rip.  5gb per film.

I spend a great deal of time on this recently to encode my DVD collection for
use on Plex.  I'm using the ATV2 with the Plex App and tried many Handbrake
formats and Presets.  I also used MakeMKV which takes the DVD VOB files and
puts them together in a container so you can watch at full quality with no
compression.  I spent hours reading posts and doing rips and encoding tests
because I have over 300 DVD's and don't wan't to do this twice.

The MakeMKV program produced files that were essentially exact copies of the
source DVD's.  If you have the Disk Space for storing and backing up then this
will be the best quality but a typical DVD is 6-7 gigs so I ruled it our for
that reason.  All my other encoding tests were done in Handbrake (latest
version) with the original ripped VIDEO_TS folders.

After doing all the research I decided to use the MKV file format in
HandBrake.  I did try a few MP4's but the file size seemed to be a little
larger for the same RF (constant quality) number.  Anyway I decided MKV H.264
was the way to go for me.  Not sure if the ATV2 will play that natively and
like I said I'm using the Plex App. (on jail-broken ATV2).

After doing a lot of comparisons of quality and video settings I decided to go
with the High Profile Preset because it produces a smaller file size with very
good quality (but longer encoding time).  That also uses the Loose Amamorphic
setting, and then I manually change the Format from MP4 to MKV.  Finally I use
a RF of 19.25 not sure why as it's hard to tell the difference between 18 and
the recommended 20.  But it works for me.  The encoded file sizes are
averaging between 1.3 and 2.5 gigs and when I watch the movie it's hard to
tell the difference from the original DVD.  I haven't found a reliable way to
do a batch convert on the mac, I tried DropFolders but it didn't work for me.
So I load up the HandBrake Queue with about 30 movies at night and they are
done by noon the next day.  On a iMac27 i7 I'm getting encoding frame rates
averaging 90fps or so depending on the DVD.

You can spend way too much time with this and get way over critical.  Just
pick a Handbrake preset and do a few tests on the device(s) you want to view
the video on and then go from there.  One thing to watch out for is that
HandBrake doesn't always select the correct chapter to encode.  Some DVD's
have Fullscreen & Widescreen versions on the same disc and other times it will
just select the wrong chapter all together.  Because I'm doing so many movies
now to enter my collection, I just do the encoding and then fix it later if I
see any problems.

forums.macrumors.com/showthread.php?t=1086363


Links
=====
Best Handbrake Settings + NO QUALITY LOSS!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EKPZKgGBIKM

Best possible Handbrake settings to rip DVDs? 720p?
http://forums.macrumors.com/showthread.php?t=1086363
